back to Benson, but who had earned the respect of
his colleagues
because when Benson spoke on a point,
everyone had learned that he had given it thought,
careful thought
and time.
Never one to go on at length.
Benson was a straight shooter
with
careful aim.
Harry Cockel represented agriculture, a
splendid researcher
who had
been able to attend A&M as an undergraduate living
in the project houses during the Depression.
with a good Germanic sense of humor and
determination.
He carried
a big volume
of influence because of the depth and breadth of
agriculture, including the college experiment
station, and extension service.
Yet Harry looked at what was good for the
university first.
Dave Maxwell, a comparatively
thin man who lived a little more than a block away
from us
just beyond Southwest Berkway,
led the College of Liberal Arts, which was growing
rapidly,
and he too had high esteem among his colleagues.
Mac Prescott, a tireless biochemist,
had come over from that department located in the
College of Agriculture to head science.
No one was more determined
to move his group forward than Mack, a former World
War II Air Force crew member in the Pacific
with a long and strong record of accomplishment in
biochemistry.
Dr. Alvin Price, in veterinary medicine, quote,
slick owl, quote, to decades of students, was
nearing the end of his splendid service,
leading one of the nation's largest programs in
veterinary medicine, but he too was a splendid
veteran. Similarly, Ed Romanek,
a comparatively unique Chicagoan,
was the Dean of Architecture.
And he always brightened up the sessions with his
humor.
Frank Hubert, who had been the Dean of Arts and
Sciences before that unit was broken apart,
now headed Education.
But his
Field of view was campus wide on many points and
statewide on some.
John Pearson was building business
administration in quality and size.
and Geosciences,
I cannot remember the name right now of that dean,
also
was growing particularly in its national
reputation in the fields of geology, geophysics,
oceanography, and meteorology.
Paragraph, thus there were no dark corners
nor dead centers in the group.
During the Calhoun years, paragraph, during the
Calhoun years as dean of faculties, It was my task
to lead a number of the searches for Dean's and
other key administrative slots. The first of
those came when Dean Price retired from
veterinary medicine.
Being a naive and inexperienced
chairman of a search committee,
I was part of a decision to interview eight
finalists for that post. Dash, far too many.
On the other hand, I am proud to recall
that we tried to have each candidate
visit with exactly the same
groups
of appropriate individuals relating to
veterinary medicine, such as faculty, staff,
fellow deans,
students,
and some
that include graduates of veterinary medicine on
some of those groups. Similarly,
I tried to ensure that each group asked the same
questions
of each candidate
and that where possible
The sessions were held in the same room and the same
sequence
for each
of the candidates.
Paragraph. Finally, when the lengthy process
of reviewing an octet
of visitors was completed.
I then went back to each interview group
and asked them to rank all of the interviewees
in a weighted tally
fashion.
When that calculation was completed,
it was clear that two individuals were far ahead of
the others in the evaluation process.
One had been dean at Ohio State for perhaps two
years recently,
but had then left
in a huff, apparently having told some of the
campus leadership where they could go and what
they could do when they got there.
To me, this
man seemed exciting. Some of his ideas relating to
A&M's veterinary medical potential
seemed highly innovative,
and others, while imaginative, were clearly
controversial. The word, quote, exciting,
quote, seemed to jump into my
evaluation of it. The other leader was a native
Texan and graduate of A&M, George Shelton, then
the Associate Dean of Veterinary Medicine at the
University of Missouri.
By comparison with the other frontrunner,
Dr. Shelton was comparatively reserved,
quiet, always composed, pleasant and would
obviously never provoke any camp any great
upheaval
paragraph thus when i reviewed the
two front runners when i reviewed the search
process
first with Vice President Calhoun, and then Dr.
Williams.
I indicated that
the former dean of Ohio State would be, quote,
exciting, yet there might often be upheaval and
controversy.
things quote would never but quote things would
never be dull period quote
after giving that evaluation to president
williams he asked me to write the other man
and i told him that dr shelton seemed to be a an
individual who would calmly, quietly,
carefully, and consistently
lead veterinary medicine to improvement and
higher achievement.
Without any delay, he said, let's go with Shelton.
I've got enough damn excitement in my life
already. I need peace and quiet wherever we can
find it.
After the Shelton's moved to College Station. By
luck.
Dash or perhaps. By divine providence.
The football and basketball season tickets for
the Shelton's and the Monroe's were side by side.
As George sometimes phrased it, he and my wife, Jo,
quietly observed as Joey and I second-guessed the
coaches In both those sports. We became good
friends.
And I.
Certainly develop.
A deep and abiding respect. For the Shelton's,
especially for George. As a very. capable
professional leader. Paragraph again, possibly
my luck
or influence from above.
When the search committee
was seeking a new chancellor at the University of
Missouri, In 1987, the
president of the Missouri Alumni Association
served on the search committee.
He, a very highly regarded lawyer and future state
senator,
noticed
that one of the finalists
had served for a number of years, had served for
more than two decades at Texas A&M.
Thus, he picked up the phone and called
a man who had held
an office adjoining that of his father in the
College of Veteran Medicine at Missouri for a
number of years.
He asked this man, whom he had referred to as Uncle
George, quote, because
when this future MU alum leader was growing up,
he would visit with George Shilton while he was
waiting for his father.
Thus, when Uncle George gave very positive
evaluations
of the former dean of faculties at A&M,
that evaluation
was given a high rating
by the
Missouri alumni leader and his search committee
colleagues.
Another paragraph, another search
here that
had a
more complicated process
was the attempt to replace Ed Romanek when he
retired.
A number of individuals were were sought
and I believe that Dr. Winerdi was the coordinator
of that search.
But I certainly was involved a great deal.
Finally,
we identified a man from the University of Arizona
who seemed very, very promising.
and related that evaluation to Dr. Calhoun,
who then directed us to proceed and quote,
hire him
regardless of the salary we have to offer, period,
quote.
with optimism in our efforts. When Erdi and I
chatted with the Arizona
prospect on the phone,
finally found a salary that he would accept and
went back to Dr. Calhoun
to report our success.
only to be stunned at his decision that we had gone
too high and that we should go back and reduce the
salary
or terminate the offer,
which we had to do.
In hindsight, I shall always wonder what would
have been the result if that very promising man had
been located.
Another search was
for the director of university libraries.
and included a wide variety of interviewees,
including probably the first black
candidate
at such a high administrative level on the campus,
along with a highly capable woman.
Once more, when Erdi and I were together in the
effort,
and when we summarized
the process,
we urged that the black man
who had been very successful at the University of
Houston,
be our target
without any hint at all
of any racial reason for his evaluation. Calhoun
directed us to proceed to recruit the woman,
Dr. Irene Hoadley, who was the number three person
in the administrative hierarchy at Ohio State
University.
Ironically, the man would be that we failed to
pursue would be selected as the director of
libraries at one of the great Ivy League schools a
year or so later.
One of the most
memorable searches for me occurred at A&M,
occurred just a few months, a few weeks before we
moved to
the task of president at University of Texas at El
Paso. This was search for a new dean of education
because Frank Hubert
had moved up to chancellor of the Texas A&M system.
By then, I felt somewhat, I felt experienced in
dean searches and we were able to proceed with the
process
of
similar questions
as a part of a uniform schedule
and an emphasis that each member of every
interview group
would attempt to make direct personal contacts
with individuals that they knew well who might be
able to evaluate this individual.
That practice had come as a result
of our becoming convinced that written letters of
evaluation from the applicant or nominee's
references
usually contain nothing but glowing praise.
Further inquiries
to individuals
that were unknown,
who were strangers, to A&M inquirers
sometimes resulted in meaningless or even
unreliable information.
Thus I always tried to emphasize the essentiality
of contacting individuals known directly.
Another matter of emphasis in the search
processes which I could affect
was to urge
that an effort be made to find out why an apparently
highly capable individual would be willing to
consider another appointment?
Or, in other words, was this individual needing to
find another slot because they were about to lose
the one they had?
Paragraph, in the search for a new dean of
education, that became a reality.
regarding
two of the
key
candidates.
One of the interviewees arrived on the campus a
couple of hours after my wife and I returned to
College Station from our three-day on-campus
visit
and interview sessions